doc/march_packages/march_hardware.rst, before:

.. _march-hardware-label:

march_hardware
==============

Overview
--------

The march_hardware package a C++ package to interact with the physical |m4| exoskeleton.
Its goal is to provide an api for actuating the exoskeleton without understanding of the underlying hardware.
We use `SOEM <https://github.com/OpenEtherCATsociety/SOEM>`_ to communicate with the hardware and send commands.

Class Structure
---------------
.. tip::
  The :ref:`march-hardware-builder-label` can help with the class structure of the hardware package,
  especially when looking at an :hardware-interface:`example yaml <march_hardware_builder/src/robots/march4.yaml>`.

The highest level class is the MarchRobot, it contains a list of Joints which can be accessed.
Each Joint is identified by a name and optionally has an IMotionCube and TemperatureGES.
This is enough knowledge to start interacting with a MarchRobot.

Example usage
-------------
Here is an example of the commands you can use on a MarchRobot object when it is created with the correct joints.

.. code::

  MarchRobot robot;
  robot.startEthercat();
  Joint rightKnee = robot.getJoint("right_knee");
  rightKnee.prepareActuation();
  rightKnee.actuateRad(0.2);
  rightKnee.getRad();
  rightKnee.getTemperature();
  robot.stopEthercat();

Power Distribution Board
------------------------

.. todo:: (Tim, Martijn) Explain

EtherCAT
--------
.. todo:: (Martijn) Explain the EtherCAT loop, master, sdo.


IMotionCube
-----------
.. todo:: (Martijn) Explain writing to IMC over ethercat


ROS API
-------
The hardware package is written without depending on ROS to ensure that it can remain functional even when ROS will no longer be used.
The package does depend on ROS for logging, but that can be easily changed if needed.

Commit message:

Add EtherCAT doc
Explain EthercatMaster and reading/writing PDOs

doc/march_packages/march_hardware.rst, after:

.. _march-hardware-label:

march_hardware
==============

Overview
--------

The march_hardware package a C++ package to interact with the physical |m4| exoskeleton.
Its goal is to provide an api for actuating the exoskeleton without understanding of the underlying hardware.
We use `SOEM <https://github.com/OpenEtherCATsociety/SOEM>`_ to communicate with the hardware and send commands.

Class Structure
---------------
.. tip::
  The :ref:`march-hardware-builder-label` can help with the class structure of the hardware package,
  especially when looking at an :hardware-interface:`example yaml <march_hardware_builder/src/robots/march4.yaml>`.

The highest level class is the MarchRobot, it contains a list of Joints which can be accessed.
Each Joint is identified by a name and optionally has an IMotionCube and TemperatureGES.
This is enough knowledge to start interacting with a MarchRobot.

Example usage
-------------
Here is an example of the commands you can use on a MarchRobot object when it is created with the correct joints.

.. code::

  MarchRobot robot;
  robot.startEthercat();
  Joint rightKnee = robot.getJoint("right_knee");
  rightKnee.prepareActuation();
  rightKnee.actuateRad(0.2);
  rightKnee.getRad();
  rightKnee.getTemperature();
  robot.stopEthercat();

Power Distribution Board
------------------------

.. todo:: (Tim, Martijn) Explain

EtherCAT
--------
The EthercatMaster class contains the main EtherCAT functionality and the main interface with SOEM. EtherCAT can be started and stopped via the EthercatMaster. When EtherCAT is started, a parallel thread is started that continuously sends and receives the latest EtherCAT PDO data and monitors if all slaves are still present and operational. When EtherCAT is stopped, this parallel thread is stopped.

The EthercatMaster class expects several arguments in its constructor: a pointer to a vector of Joints of the robot, the network interface name of your device, the number of EtherCAT slaves in  your robot, and the cycle time of the EtherCAT thread in milliseconds. An example is provided below.
    
.. code::
  EthercatMaster ethercat(&jointList, "enp2s0", maxSlaveIndex, ecatCycleTimeMs);

.. tip::
  Find out your devices ifname by running :code:`ifconfig` in a terminal.

Reading and writing EtherCAT data is possible through the other classes in the march_hardware package (e.g. Joint, IMotionCube, Encoder). For example, the :hardware:`Encoder class <march_hardware/src/Encoder.cpp>` getAngleIU() method reads the latest encoder value that was received by the EthercatMaster.



IMotionCube
-----------
.. todo:: (Martijn) Explain writing to IMC over ethercat


ROS API
-------
The hardware package is written without depending on ROS to ensure that it can remain functional even when ROS will no longer be used.
The package does depend on ROS for logging, but that can be easily changed if needed.
